Mark,

We're running into some trouble with Ashraf's FEFET model on nanohub.

Recall that part of our agenda was to use this model to illustrate negative
capacitance modelling (and characteristic curves with folding regions) in a
device that is currently of general interest in the community.

Here are the problems we have found with Ashraf's FEFET model:

1. As it stands, it contains undeclared variables. (For which reason, Spectre
   (Cadence's simulator) as well as VAPP (our Verilog-A to ModSpec
   translator), will not even accept the model.)

2. After fixing the undeclared statements and translating to ModSpec using
   VAPP, we found that it generally works. However, today, we found what we
   think is a serious problem with the model - when connected as a diode
   connected transistor, the model does not converge at zero bias. This
   happens both in MAPP and in Spectre, using different convergence
   algorithms. For example, all voltages/currents being zero is NOT a solution.
   In MAPP, we can loosen convergence tolerances and get it to converge, but
   it produces a non-zero current at zero bias, which is completely
   non-physical.

Tianshi and Gokcen spent some time looking into the model and found two things
seem that seem related to the problem: the thermionic emission current code
(just a few lines, added by mwahab, Ashraf's student); and the lack of
smoothness in drain-source inversion code of the MVS model. It is not clear to
us if the thermonic emission drain current (which is non-zero at zero bias) is
physical - if so, it would imply energy generation by the device. Removing the
thermionic emission current code fixes the problem. But even if it is not
removed, smoothing the drain-source inversion code also fixes the convergence
problem, though it seems to produce multiple solutions at zero bias, one of
which is not zero - that doesn't seem physical either.

In my opinion, this model should be revoked from nanoHUB until these issues are
satisfactorily addressed by the model's publishers and explained clearly in
the documentation.

Given this, what do we do now for the workshop? I was thinking: 

1. Let Ashraf and his student know about this privately and encourage them to
   look into it. But we would like not to spend any time hand-holding them
   beyond pointing out our findings so far, so I'd appreciate any thoughts you
   might have about how best to do it.

2. The model does seem to work in simulation if it is not diode connected, so
   we were thinking of illustrating the process of Verilog-A model development
   and characterization using it, still.

Do let us know what you think. Thanks,

Jaijeet
